---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Welcome to DAO DAO

[DAO
DAO](https://daodao.zone/dao/juno10h0hc64jv006rr8qy0zhlu4jsxct8qwa0vtaleayh0ujz0zynf2s2r7v8q)
is a DAO that builds DAOs. We build powerful, [open
source](https://github.com/DA0-DA0), DAO tooling.

## Why DAOs?

Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) are programmable organizations
with rules and procedures governed by its members. DAOs can help manage
everything from an [Internet community of
dogs](https://daodao.zone/dao/juno1czh5dy2kxwwt5hlw6rr2q25clj96sheftsdccswg9qe34m3wzgdswmw8ju)
to the [development of entire
blockchains](https://daodao.zone/dao/neutron1suhgf5svhu4usrurvxzlgn54ksxmn8gljarjtxqnapv8kjnp4nrstdxvff/proposals).

Because DAO DAO DAOs operate on a blockchain, they are transparent by default.
This means that votes, the voting power of members, and actions a DAO takes are
all publicly auditable. This can help provide trust that DAO members are being
good stewards of their communities.

The programmability of DAOs makes them extremely flexible. DAO DAO is designed
as a set of [composable
components](https://github.com/DA0-DA0/dao-contracts/wiki/DAO-DAO-Contracts-Design),
essentially that can snap together like Lego blocks. Communities can pick and
choose among pre-built governance components to create a system that works well
for them, or they can program their own.

Any kind of institution can be represented as a DAO. You can launch a business
or an investment group, found a school, manage an artist collective, or create a
popular assembly for your local community. Our hope is to build a platform where
the challenges of community formation and maintenance are social, not
bureaucratic nor costly.

## Why DAO DAO?

DAO DAO helps you build and operate DAOs by providing a visual interface to
easily interact with the underlying smart contracts that run on the blockchain.
Ideally, DAO DAO abstracts away the complexities of blockchains and lets you
focus on your community. Usability and accessibility are a priority. Technical
and non-technical communities alike have a space here.

DAO DAO DAOs are
[IBC](https://www.coinbase.com/cloud/discover/dev-foundations/ibc-protocol)-enabled,
meaning that your DAO can interact with and manage protocols and assets on any
IBC-enabled chain, like [Osmosis](https://osmosis.zone),
[Stargaze](https://stargaze.zone) and [Juno](https://junonetwork.io).

## Where do I begin?

If you want to get started building a DAO, check out our
[Create a DAO](docs/dao-management/create-a-dao.md) guide.

If you want to chat with like-minded people experimenting with new governance
tools, hop in our [Discord server](https://discord.daodao.zone).
