docs/introduction/what-is-dao.md, before:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# What's a DAO?

Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) are collectively owned governance
systems whose governing software is cryptographically bound to obey the
democratic wishes of token holders.

## Proposals

At its simplest, a DAO is an organization where you can vote on proposals.
Proposals are updated to a ledger---their text, whether they passed or failed,
and who voted on them. Proposals can be natural language rules or laws (for
example, you could run a legislature with them), or they can be software. 


When a proposal passes the DAO's voting period, that proposal becomes canonical.
It will be as "passed" in the ledger, and any *proposal messages* (effectively,
bits of code) will be executed on the chain, modifying the DAO's state.

The DAO's governance can itself be modified by governance proposals. For
example, the voting rules of the DAO themselves (e.g., how long voting periods
last, what proportion of people need to vote on something for it to pass, etc)
can be modified by governance proposals. 

:::tip Changing the rules by which rules are made
You can think of DAOs as a big game of [Nomic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nomic#:~:text=Nomic%20is%20a%20game%20in,done%20afterwards%2C%20and%20doing%20it.).
:::

## Governance tokens

DAOs manage voting through *governance tokens*. Like shares in a corporation,
governance token determines your voting power. A person with 80% of a DAO's
tokens will be able to pass things autocratically. Distributing tokens evenly
will give everyone an even vote, assuming no one trades their tokens.

:::tip Tokens are programmable. 
You can prevent transfer, prevent transfer for a certain amount of time, and more.
:::

Commit message:

Update welcome page and some small styling improvements.

docs/introduction/what-is-dao.md, after:

---
sidebar_position: 2
---

# What's a DAO?

Decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs) are collectively owned governance
systems whose governing software is cryptographically bound to obey the
democratic wishes of token holders.

## Proposals

At its simplest, a DAO is an organization where you can vote on proposals.
Proposals are updated to a ledger---their text, whether they passed or failed,
and who voted on them. Proposals can be natural language rules or laws (for
example, you could run a legislature with them), or they can be software.


When a proposal passes the DAO's voting period, that proposal becomes canonical.
It will be as "passed" in the ledger, and any *proposal messages* (effectively,
bits of code) will be executed on the chain, modifying the DAO's state.

The DAO's governance can itself be modified by governance proposals. For
example, the voting rules of the DAO themselves (e.g., how long voting periods
last, what proportion of people need to vote on something for it to pass, etc)
can be modified by governance proposals.

:::tip Changing the rules by which rules are made
You can think of DAOs as a big game of [Nomic](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nomic#:~:text=Nomic%20is%20a%20game%20in,done%20afterwards%2C%20and%20doing%20it.).
:::

## Governance tokens

Some (not all!) DAOs manage voting through *governance tokens*. Like
shares in a corporation, governance token determines your voting
power. A person with 80% of a DAO's tokens will be able to pass things
autocratically. Distributing tokens evenly will give everyone an even
vote, assuming no one trades their tokens.

:::tip Tokens are programmable.
You can prevent transfer, vest tokens over time, and more.
:::

## Non-token based DAOs

Not all DAOs need a token. DAOs may also use fixed voting weights to
determine voting power. For example, the DAO DAO [Development
Fund](https://daodao.zone/dao/juno130z8079e3dvalal8lw7yu37l99umm0ytzehes00830xl546uu7aqz5akcp)
assigns fixed weights to members.

Tokens can be useful when you want very fluid governance with many
members. For smaller groups, or committees of experts not having a
token can simplify governance.
