# Limitation

While powerful conceptually, the [Authz SDK module](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/modules/authz) suffers from one primary drawback that unfortunately makes it quite limited in application and in some cases, often experienced by DAOs, entirely useless. The issue has been raised [here](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/issues/18567), but the maintainers at the time were unable to grasp the importance of fixing it enough to prioritize it, and it remains unfixed.

## Problem

The problem lies in the fact that only one authorization can exist for the triple `(granter, grantee, type)`, where `type` is the type URL of an authorization. Different SDK modules define their own authorization types: the authz module itself defines one ([`GenericAuthorization`](https://docs.cosmos.network/main/build/modules/authz#genericauthorization)), the wasm module defines three (`StoreCodeAuthorization`,`ContractMigrationAuthorization`, and `ContractExecutionAuthorization`), etc.

`GenericAuthorization` grants a grantee unrestricted permission to execute a specific message on behalf of the granter (e.g. stake tokens, undelegate tokens, upload contracts, etc.). While this is very powerful, the granter can only choose one message to allow a grantee to perform, preventing more complex situations where an account (or DAO) wishes to allow another account to act on behalf of them in many ways.

The three authorizations in the wasm module mentioned before attempt to workaround this issue with an internal pattern where a single`ContractExecutionAuthorization` can contain a list of one or more`ContractGrant`s, so a granter can effectively authorize a specific grantee to perform many executions on different contracts. This is certainly an improvement, but it yields two more problems:

1. The less serious one is that since the list of `ContractGrant`s in the authorization is non-paginated, there is some limit to the number that can be created—though it is probably pretty large.
2. The more serious issue is that a developer must include all existing grants when adding a new grant. This means that if an app wants to create a contract authorization between a granter and grantee, it must first query for existing grants between them to prevent overriding another app's grants or even other grants that exist within the same app. This is inefficient, and while technically possible, developers are not always that careful, nor should they be expected to be; a developer's ability and incentive to discover that they are breaking another app and resolve the issue is probably quite low, and an app should not have to rely on other apps not accidentally breaking their app. Taking it a step further, proposals are created separately from when they are executed. If a proposal must include all existing grants, but the grants change in the middle of its voting period, executing that proposal will now override any changes that were made after it was published. Ideally, proposals operate incrementally: they should be able to insert a specific grant or delete an existing grant without needing to know about the rest of them.

Clearly, there is recognition that authz should function more as a mutable list of many authorizations, and since each module defines its own authorization types, this is possible to an extent. But for it to be maximally flexible and future-proof, this incremental multi-authorization functionality needs to be implemented at the top, within the authz module, not individually by modules in their authorization types. It would be a nightmare for each module to come up with its own system for supporting simultaneous authorization types, which is what's already happening.
