---
sidebar_position: 4
---

# Voting

For any given proposal, your voting power is determined by how many
tokens you had registered to vote at the time the proposal was
created.

You may be wondering: why is your voting weight determined by your
voting weight at the time the proposal was launched? If we didn't have
this feature, DAOs with lots of tokens listed on exchanges could be
vulnerable to an attack: someone could buy lots of the DAOs tokens,
manipulate the vote, then sell the tokens immediately
afterward. Assuring tokens were registered at proposal creation time
assures that a DAO members knows _to whom_ they are making the
proposal: the people who have tokens registered at the moment the
proposal goes live.

# Voting configuration

You can change the parameters of voting on your DAO in a variety of
ways. These parameters can be set when you create a DAO, and can be
modified after the fact by [governance proposals](./governance-proposals).

## Quorum

Quorum is the proportion of all staked tokens that must vote for a
proposal to pass. For example, if quorum is set to 33%, then a
proposal can only pass when 33% of staked tokens have voted. As with
voting, quorum is calculated based on staked tokens at the time of
proposal creation.

:::caution

Threshold and quorum are not the same. Threshold is about the
proportion of "yes" votes a proposal requires. Quorum is about the
"voter turnout" a proposal requires.

:::

## Passing threshold (%)

Passing threshold can work differently depending on whether or not
your DAO has set a quorum.

- **Threshold of voting weight**. If your DAO has **no quorum set**,
  this is the percentage of the DAO's voting weight that must vote
  "yes" for a proposal to pass. For example, if threshold is set to
  51%, then a proposal must achieve 51% "yes" votes to pass.

- **Threshold of quorum**. If your DAO **has a quorum set**, the
  passing percentage is only calculated among those who voted. For
  example, with a quorum of 50% and a passing threshold of 50%, a
  proposal could pass with only 25% of the total voting weight having
  voted "yes." Imagine: 50% of the voting weight votes on the
  proposal. The proposal has passed quorum. Of those that do vote, 50%
  vote "yes." Abstain and no split the rest of the vote. "Yes" will
  have won the vote with a 50% threshold of quorum, even though only
  25% of the voting weight was represented in the vote.

## Voting duration (seconds)

This is how long proposals remain open for voting.

## Proposal deposit

This is how many tokens someone must put down to create a
proposal. DAOs may be configured _not_ to refund proposal deposits if
the proposal fails. If you are worried about spam in your DAO, you may
want to enable this.

## Unstaking duration

After someone stakes tokens in your DAO, those tokens cannot be
immediately unstaked. The duration for which they remain bonded after
intending to unstake is determined by the unstaking duration.
